SILKIT-1608: disable nagle algorithm by default (#181)
vectorgrp/sil-kit: docs/troubleshooting/performance.rst

.. include:: /substitutions.rst

Performance
=========

The following sections provide support for improving the performance of |ProductName|.

Configuration of TCP Stack (Kernel)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The TCP stack of the kernel can be configured via the participant configuration file, more precisely the :doc:`middleware<../configuration/middleware-configuration>` options. 
This configuration needs to be done carefully. In particular, Nagle's algorithm (``TcpNoDelay``) and delayed acknowledgements (``TcpQuickAck``) are known to interact badly. 

> Per default, Nagle's algorithm is disabled and delayed acknowledgements are enabled. Note that enabling both features may cause severe performance losses as well as non-deterministic behaviour.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that version X.Y.Z and following will use the ``NO_DELAY`` flag (disable Nagle's algorithm) by default (``TcpNoDelay: true``).
Using ``TcpNoDelay: true`` and ``TcpQuickAck: true`` together, may cause severe performance losses as well as non-deterministic behaviour.
```

I would probably reword this to get away from using 'enabled' and 'disabled' so much - it at least confused me a fair bit 😹

Author: Excellent hint! I was getting confused as well 😁

.. include:: /substitutions.rst

Performance
=========

The following sections provide support for improving the performance of |ProductName|.

TCP Socket Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The TCP sockets used by SIL Kit can be configured via the participant configuration file, more precisely the :doc:`middleware<../configuration/middleware-configuration>` options.
This configuration needs to be done carefully. In particular, using Nagle's algorithm (``TcpNoDelay: false``) and delayed acknowledgements (``TcpQuickAck: false``) are known to interact badly.
Please note that version 4.0.56 and following will use the ``NO_DELAY`` flag (which disables Nagle's algorithm) by default (``TcpNoDelay: true``).

> Using ``TcpNoDelay: true`` and ``TcpQuickAck: true`` together, may cause severe performance losses as well as non-deterministic behaviour.
> For example, resulting in 40ms latency peaks on Linux platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Using ``TcpNoDelay: true`` and ``TcpQuickAck: true`` together may cause severe performance losses as well as non-deterministic behaviour, e.g., resulting in 40ms latency peaks on Linux platforms.
```
